README.md, before:

# HW1: Matrix Multiplication

See https://sites.google.com/lbl.gov/cs267spring2020/hw-1 for details on the assignment.

## Version control

This is a Git repository.
We _highly_ recommend creating your own GitHub repo to track your changes and collaborate with your teammates.
Follow these steps to get collaborating:

1. Go to https://github.com/new
2. Name the repository anything you like, say `cs267-hw1`.
Make sure it is set to **PRIVATE**.
3. Once this is done, run the following commands:

```
[student@cori10 hw1]$ git remote rename origin staff
[student@cori10 hw1]$ git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/cs267-hw1.git
[student@cori10 hw1]$ git push -u origin master
```

If you prefer to use SSH to connect to GitHub,
[follow these instructions](https://help.github.com/en/github/using-git/which-remote-url-should-i-use#cloning-with-ssh-urls)

## Build system

This assignment uses [CMake](https://cmake.org/) to provide a consistent build system for all students.
You should not need to modify the provided build in any way (CMakeLists.txt).
This document describes the basic process for configuring and building the code.

First, note that this file is in the _source directory_.
You will run CMake commands from the _build directory_, which you create by running

```
[student@cori10 hw1]$ mkdir build
[student@cori10 hw1]$ cd build
```

## Build configuration

From this _build directory_, it is now possible to _configure_ the build.
The basic way to do this is:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
```

This command tells CMake to generate the build files for HW1 in _Release_ mode.
The syntax `-D[VAR]=[VAL]` allows you to set a variable.
Only `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` is required, though there are more variables that you might want to change:

1. `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` -- this is either `Debug` or `Release`.
2. `CMAKE_C_FLAGS` -- this allows you to specify additional compiler flags.
3. `MAX_SPEED` -- this should be equal to the maximum number of gigaflops-per-second (GF/s) your processor can execute.
It is set to 36.8 by default, which matches Cori's processors.
4. `TEAM_NO` -- when you are ready to submit your assignment, set this to be your **two-digit** team number.

When you build in Debug mode, optimizations are disabled.
Yet when writing parallel code, it is often the case that problems arise only when optimizations are enabled.
You can recover debugging symbols in Release mode (for use with `gdb`) by running:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_C_FLAGS="-g3" ..
```

Similarly, you can enable optimizations in Debug mode by running:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DCMAKE_C_FLAGS="-O2" ..
```

## Compiling

Once your build is configured, you can actually compile by running `make` from the build directory.

```
[student@cori10 build]$ make
```

This will produce several files:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ ls
benchmark-blas     CMakeCache.txt       job-blas     Makefile
benchmark-blocked  CMakeFiles           job-blocked
benchmark-naive    cmake_install.cmake  job-naive
```

The executables `benchmark-blas`, `benchmark-blocked`, and `benchmark-naive` are the relevant ones here.
You can freely make configuration changes to the build and re-run make however you choose.

## Testing

To run your code on the cluster, you can use the generated `job-blocked` script like so:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ sbatch job-blocked
Submitted batch job 9637622
```

The job is now submitted to Cori's job queue.
We can now check on the status of our submitted job using a few different commands.

```
[student@cori10 build]$ squeue -u demmel
             JOBID PARTITION     NAME     USER ST       TIME  NODES NODELIST(REASON)
           9637622     debug job-bloc   demmel PD       0:00      1 (Priority)
[student@cori10 build]$ sqs
JOBID    ST  USER   NAME         NODES REQUESTED USED  SUBMIT               QOS        SCHEDULED_START    REASON   
9637622  PD  demmel  job-blocked  1     1:00      0:00  2018-01-19T11:42:17  debug_hsw  avail_in_~1.0_hrs  Priority
```

When our job is finished, we'll find new files in our build directory containing the output of our program.
For example, we'll find the files job-blas.o9637622 and job-blas.e9637622.
The first file contains the standard output of our program, and the second file contains the standard error.

Feel free to modify `job-blocked`, but note that changes to it will be overwritten by CMake if you reconfigure your
build.
It might therefore be easier to copy it under a new name like `my-job` and modify it as you desire.

### Interactive sessions

You may find it useful to launch an [interactive session](https://docs.nersc.gov/jobs/interactive/) when developing
your code.
This lets you compile and run code interactively on a compute node that you've reserved.
In addition, running interactively lets you use the special interactive queue, which means you'll receive your
allocation quicker.

## Submission

Once you're happy with your performance, you can get ready to submit.
First, make sure that your write up is in the same directory as this README and is named `teamNN_hw1.pdf` where `NN`
is your team's **two-digit** team number.
Then configure the build with your team number:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DTEAM_NO=NN ..
[student@cori10 build]$ make package
```

This should produce an archive containing the following files:

```
[demmel@cori10 build]$ tar tfz teamNN_hw1.tar.gz 
teamNN_hw1/teamNN_hw1.pdf
teamNN_hw1/dgemm-blocked.c
```

If you prefer to create the archive yourself, make sure that it follows this structure _exactly_.

## Windows Instructions

We recommend using [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/) ([free for students](https://www.jetbrains.com/student/))
and [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) (Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS) for developing on Windows.
CLion provides [instructions](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/clion/how-to-use-wsl-development-environment-in-clion.html)
for setting up the IDE for use with WSL.
Be sure to install `libopenblas-dev` from within Ubuntu as well.

The starter code will compiler with MSVC and Visual Studio on Windows, but we do not recommend trying to write
first with MSVC and then porting to GCC (the required compiler).
MSVC does not implement many useful features in the C language and is fundamentally a C++ compiler.

Commit message:

Separate large test list from build type.

README.md, after:

# HW1: Matrix Multiplication

See https://sites.google.com/lbl.gov/cs267spring2020/hw-1 for details on the assignment.

## Version control

This is a Git repository.
We _highly_ recommend creating your own GitHub repo to track your changes and collaborate with your teammates.
Follow these steps to get collaborating:

1. Go to https://github.com/new
2. Name the repository anything you like, say `cs267-hw1`.
Make sure it is set to **PRIVATE**.
3. Once this is done, run the following commands:

```
[student@cori10 hw1]$ git remote rename origin staff
[student@cori10 hw1]$ git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/cs267-hw1.git
[student@cori10 hw1]$ git push -u origin master
```

If you prefer to use SSH to connect to GitHub,
[follow these instructions](https://help.github.com/en/github/using-git/which-remote-url-should-i-use#cloning-with-ssh-urls)

## Build system

This assignment uses [CMake](https://cmake.org/) to provide a consistent build system for all students.
You should not need to modify the provided build in any way (CMakeLists.txt).
This document describes the basic process for configuring and building the code.

First, note that this file is in the _source directory_.
You will run CMake commands from the _build directory_, which you create by running

```
[student@cori10 hw1]$ mkdir build
[student@cori10 hw1]$ cd build
```

## Build configuration

From this _build directory_, it is now possible to _configure_ the build.
The basic way to do this is:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
```

This command tells CMake to generate the build files for HW1 in _Release_ mode.
The syntax `-D[VAR]=[VAL]` allows you to set a variable.
Only `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` is required, though there are more variables that you might want to change:

1. `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` -- this is either `Debug` or `Release`.
2. `CMAKE_C_FLAGS` -- this allows you to specify additional compiler flags.
3. `MAX_SPEED` -- this should be equal to the maximum number of gigaflops-per-second (GF/s) your processor can execute.
It is set to 36.8 by default, which matches Cori's processors.
4. `TEAM_NO` -- when you are ready to submit your assignment, set this to be your **two-digit** team number.
5. `ALL_SIZES` -- set to `ON` to test against a large set of matrix sizes. `OFF` by default.

When you build in Debug mode, optimizations are disabled.
Yet when writing parallel code, it is often the case that problems arise only when optimizations are enabled.
You can recover debugging symbols in Release mode (for use with `gdb`) by running:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_C_FLAGS="-g3" ..
```

Similarly, you can enable optimizations in Debug mode by running:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DCMAKE_C_FLAGS="-O2" ..
```

## Compiling

Once your build is configured, you can actually compile by running `make` from the build directory.

```
[student@cori10 build]$ make
```

This will produce several files:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ ls
benchmark-blas     CMakeCache.txt       job-blas     Makefile
benchmark-blocked  CMakeFiles           job-blocked
benchmark-naive    cmake_install.cmake  job-naive
```

The executables `benchmark-blas`, `benchmark-blocked`, and `benchmark-naive` are the relevant ones here.
You can freely make configuration changes to the build and re-run make however you choose.

## Testing

To run your code on the cluster, you can use the generated `job-blocked` script like so:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ sbatch job-blocked
Submitted batch job 9637622
```

The job is now submitted to Cori's job queue.
We can now check on the status of our submitted job using a few different commands.

```
[student@cori10 build]$ squeue -u demmel
             JOBID PARTITION     NAME     USER ST       TIME  NODES NODELIST(REASON)
           9637622     debug job-bloc   demmel PD       0:00      1 (Priority)
[student@cori10 build]$ sqs
JOBID    ST  USER   NAME         NODES REQUESTED USED  SUBMIT               QOS        SCHEDULED_START    REASON   
9637622  PD  demmel  job-blocked  1     1:00      0:00  2018-01-19T11:42:17  debug_hsw  avail_in_~1.0_hrs  Priority
```

When our job is finished, we'll find new files in our build directory containing the output of our program.
For example, we'll find the files job-blas.o9637622 and job-blas.e9637622.
The first file contains the standard output of our program, and the second file contains the standard error.

Feel free to modify `job-blocked`, but note that changes to it will be overwritten by CMake if you reconfigure your
build.
It might therefore be easier to copy it under a new name like `my-job` and modify it as you desire.

### Interactive sessions

You may find it useful to launch an [interactive session](https://docs.nersc.gov/jobs/interactive/) when developing
your code.
This lets you compile and run code interactively on a compute node that you've reserved.
In addition, running interactively lets you use the special interactive queue, which means you'll receive your
allocation quicker.

## Submission

Once you're happy with your performance, you can get ready to submit.
First, make sure that your write up is in the same directory as this README and is named `teamNN_hw1.pdf` where `NN`
is your team's **two-digit** team number.
Then configure the build with your team number:

```
[student@cori10 build]$ cmake -DTEAM_NO=NN ..
[student@cori10 build]$ make package
```

This should produce an archive containing the following files:

```
[demmel@cori10 build]$ tar tfz teamNN_hw1.tar.gz 
teamNN_hw1/teamNN_hw1.pdf
teamNN_hw1/dgemm-blocked.c
```

If you prefer to create the archive yourself, make sure that it follows this structure _exactly_.

## Windows Instructions

We recommend using [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/) ([free for students](https://www.jetbrains.com/student/))
and [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) (Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS) for developing on Windows.
CLion provides [instructions](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/clion/how-to-use-wsl-development-environment-in-clion.html)
for setting up the IDE for use with WSL.
Be sure to install `libopenblas-dev` from within Ubuntu as well.

The starter code will compiler with MSVC and Visual Studio on Windows, but we do not recommend trying to write
first with MSVC and then porting to GCC (the required compiler).
MSVC does not implement many useful features in the C language and is fundamentally a C++ compiler.
